
Legends and Lore of Dagudashaag Sector (By Ishmaga Ershuk)
Extracts from Chapter 6 - The Malaach Conspiracy
Published by Sherver Press, Ushra. Used with permission, all rights reserved.

The Joker's Tower

Nox has always been a mystery planet. When it was first discovered in -9,021
the atmosphere was heavily tainted. This appeared to be caused by industrial 
pollutants, yet no sign of planetary civilisation, past or present, could be 
found. None that is, except for the 1,550 metre high mound on the Gradaach
plain. 

The original survey team left with the mystery unsolved. A Vilani colony was
established in -8,350. Subsequent exploration of the Mound discovered it was
a magnetic anomaly. It affected magnetic compasses within a 6 Km radius. The
Mound had definately not been formed by any natural geological action. Was
this a remnant of the Ancients? There was nothing to connect that race with
this mystery, either then or now. 

Research teams attempted to drive probes into the base. They broke! Whatever 
it was composed of was as tough as diamond. After some of the soil had been 
cleared away, it was discovered that the actual mound was composed of a unique, 
dense crystalline structure, almost black in colour. Could there be the 
remnants of an advanced civilisation beneath it? Actual exploration of the 
exterior was complicated by the fact that the caverns at the peak were the 
home to a large colony of Noxian Spiders. Could they have been the mounds 
creators? They are, after all, the highest known pinnacle of Noxian evolution. 
Neural Activity Sensors however, revealed them to be non-sentient. 

Before the researchers could continue, members of the team began to vanish. 
In one extremely well documented case, a worker had just detonated explosives 
in the futile hope of breaching the crystalline structure of the mound. It,
like all subsequent attempts, failed. He was seen to step forwards and then 
vanished in midstep. The body was later found in the caverns at the top of
the mound, dead. The body was physically undamaged, death was caused by a
massive cerebral hemorrhage. These disappearances always seemed to occur after
an attempt was made to obtain samples. Despite attempts to use robots to do
the actual mining, people up to several kilometres distant still vanished. 
Later surveys were made using densitometers with no success. Each reading 
came out different. 

In -1203 an Entomologist from Ushra, Kevin Saulteen, discovered that the 
Noxian Spider was actually capable of spinning a weak crystalline substance 
that they used to bind their victims. He subjected the substance to intense
radiation and found that it caused the structure to compact. At last the
mystery of the towers construction appeared to be solved. Or was it? 

Saulteen later estimated that it would require the radiation of a supernova 
exploding at ground level to sufficiently harden the spider's web into the 
superdense crystal of the tower. He also estimated that it w...

